<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>
      Roads and Bridges
    </title>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>
      Appendix
    </h1>
    <section id="glossary">
      <h2>
        Glossary
      </h2>
      <dl>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Code repository</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            The location of source code needed to use a software project. For example, GitHub offers a place to host
            one’s repository so that other people can find and use it. Also colloquially called a “repo.” The
            collection of source code files themselves are called the “codebase.”
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Contributor (open source)</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            Someone who has made a contribution to a live open source project. Examples of contributions include
            writing code, documentation, or managing support issues. A contributor may not have commit access to a
            project (i.e. someone else must approve their contributions before they are live).
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Digital infrastructure</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            For the purposes of this report, digital infrastructure refers to public software components that are used
            to build software for personal or commercial use. Examples include programming languages and databases.
            This definition does not include physical infrastructure needed to build software (e.g., physical servers
            or cables).
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Documentation (software)</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            Written information that explains how people can use or contribute back to a software project.
            Documentation is like an instruction manual for software. Without it, a developer wouldn’t know how to use
            the project.
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Fork</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            There are two types of forks. A <dfn>project fork</dfn> is the historical definition of a fork, in which
            someone makes a copy of an open source project and continues to develop it separately. It is used
            politically; for example, when there is internal disagreement about the project’s direction, or to force
            substantial changes to the original project (ideally, merging the fork back into the main project). A
            <dfn>GitHub fork</dfn> refers to temporarily copying a project to make changes, usually with the intent of
            merging those changes back into the main project. It does not carry the political and social weight of a
            project fork. GitHub repurposed this term to encourage a culture of lightweight “tinkering” that is now
            prevalent among modern open source contributors.
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>FOSS, FLOSS, OSS</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            FOSS is an acronym that means Free and Open Source Software. It is meant to be inclusive of both terms that
            refer to public software. FLOSS refers to Free, Libre, and Open Source Software and is arguably the most
            inclusive definition. (The Spanish word <dfn>libre</dfn>—“free” as in freedom—is used to distinguish from
            <dfn>gratis</dfn>-“free” as in cost—in order to highlight that “free software” refers to the former.) OSS
            refers to Open Source Software only.
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Free software</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            Software that is free to run for any purpose (commercial or non-commercial) as well as be studied, changed,
            and distributed. The term originated around 1983 from the work of computer scientist Richard Stallman, the
            GNU Project, and Free Software Foundation (founded 1985).
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>GitHub</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            A commercial platform for hosting code. GitHub launched in 2008 and is currently the most popular platform
            for people to host and collaborate on open source projects. (One can also host private code on GitHub.)
            GitHub helped standardize open source development practices and bring open source to a wider audience.
            Projects on GitHub use the version control system Git.
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Maintainer (open source)</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            Someone who assumes the responsibility of an open source project. The definition varies from project to
            project. Sometimes maintainers are formally named in a project, and sometimes they emerge de facto based on
            who is doing the bulk of the work. A maintainer likely carries the burden of holistic project management
            more than any individual contributor. They may or may not have authored the original version of the
            project. They will likely have commit access to a project (i.e. can make changes directly to the project).
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Open source software</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            Open source software has the same technical definition as free software (see above). However, culturally,
            open source tends to highlight the pragmatic benefits of public software, whereas free software is a social
            movement. The term “open source” originated from a 1998 meeting of parties interested in exploring a
            corporate friendly alternative to the term “free software.”
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Programming language</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            Programming languages are the communication backbone of software. They help different software components
            perform actions and talk to one another. Popular examples of languages include JavaScript, Python and C.
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Software framework</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            Software frameworks provide basic scaffolding for an application. Think of it as a blueprint. Like a
            blueprint, a framework lays out how the application might look on mobile, or how information gets saved
            into the database. Examples include Rails and Django.
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Software library</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            Software libraries are “prefabricated” pieces of code that make it faster to write software, just as a
            construction company might buy prefabricated windows instead of building them from scratch. For example,
            instead of a developer writing their own user login system for an application, they can use a library
            called OAuth.
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Source code</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            For the purposes of this report, source code is the actual code associated with an open source project.
          </p>
        </dd>
        <dt>
          <dfn>Venture capital</dfn>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
            A type of private equity that provides money to early-stage, high-growth companies in exchange for equity.
            Venture capital helped grow many commercial aspects of the Internet and gave rise to Silicon Valley.
          </p>
        </dd>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="acknowledgements">
      <h2>
        Acknowledgements
      </h2>
      <p>
        Thanks to everybody who bravely agreed to be cited in this report, as well as to those whose frank and
        thoughtful perspectives help round out my thoughts during the research process: André Arko, Brian Behlendorf,
        Adam Benayoun, Juan Benet, Cory Benfield, Kris Borchers, John Edgar, Maciej Fijalkowski, Karl Fogel, Brian
        Ford, Sue Graves, Eric Holscher, Brandon Keepers, Russell Keith-Magee, Kyle Kemp, Jan Lehnardt, Jessica Lord,
        Steve Marquess, Karissa McKelvey, Heather Meeker, Philip Neustrom, Max Ogden, Arash Payan, Stormy Peters,
        Andrey Petrov, Peter Rabbitson, Mikeal Rogers, Hynek Schlawack, Boaz Sender, Quinn Slack, Chris Soghoian,
        Charlotte Spencer, Harlan Stenn, Diane Tate, Max Veytsman, Christopher Allan Webber, Chad Whitacre, Meredith
        Whittaker, Doug Wilson.
      </p>
      <p>
        Thanks to everybody who wrote something public that was referenced in this paper. This was a critical part of
        the research, and I am thankful to those who make their ideas public so others can learn from them.
      </p>
      <p>
        Thanks to Franz Nicolay for copy editing and Brave UX for the design of this report.
      </p>
      <p>
        Finally, a very special thanks to Jenny Toomey and Michael Brennan for driving this project with patience and
        enthusiasm, to Lori McGlinchey and Freedman Consulting for their early feedback, and to Ethan Zuckerman for
        making the magic happen.
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="notes">
      <h2>
        Notes
      </h2>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="preface.xhtml#ftnt_ref1" id="ftnt1">[1]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.cbo.gov/publication/49910">https://www.cbo.gov/publication/49910</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="preface.xhtml#ftnt_ref2" id="ftnt2">[2]</a> <a href=
          "http://news.netcraft.com/archives/2014/04/08/half-a-million-widely-trusted-websites-vulnerable-to-heartbleed-bug.html">
          http://news.netcraft.com/archives/2014/04/08/half-a-million-widely-trusted-websites-vulnerable-to-heartbleed-bug.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="preface.xhtml#ftnt_ref3" id="ftnt3">[3]</a> Email interview with Steve Marquess
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="preface.xhtml#ftnt_ref4" id="ftnt4">[4]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.forbes.com/sites/josephsteinberg/2014/04/10/massive-internet-security-vulnerability-you-are-at-risk-what-you-need-to-do/">
          http://www.forbes.com/sites/josephsteinberg/2014/04/10/massive-internet-security-vulnerability-you-are-at-risk-what-you-need-to-do/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="preface.xhtml#ftnt_ref5" id="ftnt5">[5]</a> <a href=
          "http://mashable.com/2014/04/09/heartbleed-bug-websites-affected/#01gtseEchaqa">http://mashable.com/2014/04/09/heartbleed-bug-websites-affected/#01gtseEchaqa</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="preface.xhtml#ftnt_ref6" id="ftnt6">[6]</a> <a href=
          "http://veridicalsystems.com/blog/of-money-responsibility-and-pride/">http://veridicalsystems.com/blog/of-money-responsibility-and-pride/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="preface.xhtml#ftnt_ref7" id="ftnt7">[7]</a> Phone interview with Steve Marquess
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="preface.xhtml#ftnt_ref8" id="ftnt8">[8]</a> Email interview with Steve Marquess
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="preface.xhtml#ftnt_ref9" id="ftnt9">[9]</a> Phone interview with Steve Marquess
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref10" id="ftnt10">[10]</a> <a href=
          "https://instagram.com/about/legal/libraries/">https://instagram.com/about/legal/libraries/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref11" id="ftnt11">[11]</a> <a href=
          "https://opbeat.com/blog/posts/picking-tech-for-your-startup/">https://opbeat.com/blog/posts/picking-tech-for-your-startup/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref12" id="ftnt12">[12]</a> <a href=
          "http://techcrunch.com/2010/12/08/breaking-salesforce-buys-heroku-for-212-million-in-cash/">http://techcrunch.com/2010/12/08/breaking-salesforce-buys-heroku-for-212-million-in-cash/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref13" id="ftnt13">[13]</a> <a href=
          "https://devblog.uber.com/uber-slack-a-weekend-a-story-of-open-apis/">https://devblog.uber.com/uber-slack-a-weekend-a-story-of-open-apis/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref14" id="ftnt14">[14]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.alexreisner.com/about">http://www.alexreisner.com/about</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref15" id="ftnt15">[15]</a> <a href=
          "http://unicorn.bogomips.org/CONTRIBUTORS.html">http://unicorn.bogomips.org/CONTRIBUTORS.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref16" id="ftnt16">[16]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/software-developers.htm">http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/software-developers.htm</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref17" id="ftnt17">[17]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.bothsidesofthetable.com/2011/06/28/understanding-changes-in-the-software-venture-capital-industries/">
          http://www.bothsidesofthetable.com/2011/06/28/understanding-changes-in-the-software-venture-capital-industries/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref18" id="ftnt18">[18]</a> <a href=
          "http://articles.latimes.com/2014/apr/03/business/la-fi-tn-imgur-40-million-funding-20140402">http://articles.latimes.com/2014/apr/03/business/la-fi-tn-imgur-40-million-funding-20140402</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref19" id="ftnt19">[19]</a> <a href=
          "http://lifeofaudrey.com/essays/love_and_money.html">http://lifeofaudrey.com/essays/love_and_money.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref20" id="ftnt20">[20]</a> <a href=
          "http://blog.codinghorror.com/why-ruby/">http://blog.codinghorror.com/why-ruby/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref21" id="ftnt21">[21]</a> <a href=
          "https://djangogirls.org/">https://djangogirls.org/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref22" id="ftnt22">[22]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.edsurge.com/news/2014-06-25-dev-bootcamp-no-longer-bootstrapped-acquired-by-kaplan">https://www.edsurge.com/news/2014-06-25-dev-bootcamp-no-longer-bootstrapped-acquired-by-kaplan</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref23" id="ftnt23">[23]</a> <a href=
          "http://arstechnica.com/business/2012/08/from-altair-to-ipad-35-years-of-personal-computer-market-share/2/">http://arstechnica.com/business/2012/08/from-altair-to-ipad-35-years-of-personal-computer-market-share/2/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref24" id="ftnt24">[24]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.fsf.org/about/what-is-free-software">https://www.fsf.org/about/what-is-free-software</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref25" id="ftnt25">[25]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html">https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref26" id="ftnt26">[26]</a> <a href=
          "http://opensource.org/history">http://opensource.org/history</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref27" id="ftnt27">[27]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.en.html">http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.en.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref28" id="ftnt28">[28]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WordPress">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WordPress</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref29" id="ftnt29">[29]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.zdnet.com/article/as-dbms-wars-continue-postgresql-shows-most-momentum/">http://www.zdnet.com/article/as-dbms-wars-continue-postgresql-shows-most-momentum/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref30" id="ftnt30">[30]</a> <a href=
          "http://w3techs.com/technologies/details/os-ubuntu/all/all">http://w3techs.com/technologies/details/os-ubuntu/all/all</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref31" id="ftnt31">[31]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.netmarketshare.com/browser-market-share.aspx?qprid=0&amp;qpcustomd=0">https://www.netmarketshare.com/browser-market-share.aspx?qprid=0&amp;qpcustomd=0</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref32" id="ftnt32">[32]</a> <a href=
          "http://ma.tt/2003/01/the-blogging-software-dilemma/">http://ma.tt/2003/01/the-blogging-software-dilemma/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="history.xhtml#ftnt_ref33" id="ftnt33">[33]</a> Thanks to Karl Fogel for reminding me of this
          benefit.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref34" id="ftnt34">[34]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.cbo.gov/publication/49910">https://www.cbo.gov/publication/49910</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref35" id="ftnt35">[35]</a> <a href=
          "http://thehill.com/policy/transportation/255264-mccarthy-were-going-to-make-sure-we-get-the-highway-bill-done">
          http://thehill.com/policy/transportation/255264-mccarthy-were-going-to-make-sure-we-get-the-highway-bill-done</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref36" id="ftnt36">[36]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.wsj.com/articles/house-passes-five-year-transportation-bill-1449167609">http://www.wsj.com/articles/house-passes-five-year-transportation-bill-1449167609</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref37" id="ftnt37">[37]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Dig">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Dig</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref38" id="ftnt38">[38]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.zdnet.com/article/as-dbms-wars-continue-postgresql-shows-most-momentum/">http://www.zdnet.com/article/as-dbms-wars-continue-postgresql-shows-most-momentum/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref39" id="ftnt39">[39]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MySQL">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MySQL</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref40" id="ftnt40">[40]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruby_(programming_language)">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruby_(programming_language)</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref41" id="ftnt41">[41]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Underground">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Underground</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref42" id="ftnt42">[42]</a> Monthly code commits by language. Commits
          including multiple languages are counted once for each language. Black Duck’s Open Hub pulls from over
          650,000 open source projects. Data accessed May 20, 2016. <a href=
          "https://www.openhub.net/languages/compare">https://www.openhub.net/languages/compare</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref43" id="ftnt43">[43]</a> <a href=
          "https://story.californiasunday.com/tim-hwang-infrastructure-tourist">https://story.californiasunday.com/tim-hwang-infrastructure-tourist</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref44" id="ftnt44">[44]</a> <a href=
          "http://blog.codinghorror.com/the-magpie-developer/">http://blog.codinghorror.com/the-magpie-developer/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref45" id="ftnt45">[45]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Engineering_Task_Force">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Engineering_Task_Force</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref46" id="ftnt46">[46]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_(programming_language)">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_(programming_language)</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref47" id="ftnt47">[47]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.quora.com/How-was-the-idea-to-develop-React-conceived-and-how-many-people-worked-on-developing-it-and-implementing-it-at-Facebook/answer/Bill-Fisher-17">
          https://www.quora.com/How-was-the-idea-to-develop-React-conceived-and-how-many-people-worked-on-developing-it-and-implementing-it-at-Facebook/answer/Bill-Fisher-17</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref48" id="ftnt48">[48]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/React_(JavaScript_library)">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/React_(JavaScript_library)</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref49" id="ftnt49">[49]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swift_(programming_language)">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swift_(programming_language)</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref50" id="ftnt50">[50]</a> <a href=
          "https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/master/PATENTS">https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/master/PATENTS</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref51" id="ftnt51">[51]</a> <a href=
          "http://venturebeat.com/2015/06/13/docker-now-valued-at-1b-paid-someone-799-for-its-logo-on-99designs/">http://venturebeat.com/2015/06/13/docker-now-valued-at-1b-paid-someone-799-for-its-logo-on-99designs/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref52" id="ftnt52">[52]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-04-14/docker-said-to-join-1-billion-valuation-club-with-new-funding">
          http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-04-14/docker-said-to-join-1-billion-valuation-club-with-new-funding</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref53" id="ftnt53">[53]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/meteor">https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/meteor</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref54" id="ftnt54">[54]</a> <a href=
          "http://info.meteor.com/blog/announcing-meteor-galaxy">http://info.meteor.com/blog/announcing-meteor-galaxy</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref55" id="ftnt55">[55]</a> <a href=
          "http://venturebeat.com/2015/12/06/its-actually-open-source-software-thats-eating-the-world/">http://venturebeat.com/2015/12/06/its-actually-open-source-software-thats-eating-the-world/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref56" id="ftnt56">[56]</a> <a href=
          "http://words.steveklabnik.com/is-npm-worth-26mm">http://words.steveklabnik.com/is-npm-worth-26mm</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref57" id="ftnt57">[57]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/github">https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/github</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref58" id="ftnt58">[58]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052702303292204577517111643094308">http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052702303292204577517111643094308</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref59" id="ftnt59">[59]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.python.org/doc/essays/foreword/">https://www.python.org/doc/essays/foreword/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref60" id="ftnt60">[60]</a> <a href=
          "http://blog.codeeval.com/codeevalblog/2015#.VjvKZhNViko=">http://blog.codeeval.com/codeevalblog/2015#.VjvKZhNViko=</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref61" id="ftnt61">[61]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guido_van_Rossum">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guido_van_Rossum</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref62" id="ftnt62">[62]</a> <a href=
          "http://skillcrush.com/2015/02/02/37-rails-sites/">http://skillcrush.com/2015/02/02/37-rails-sites/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref63" id="ftnt63">[63]</a> <a href=
          "https://twistedmatrix.com/trac/wiki/SuccessStories">https://twistedmatrix.com/trac/wiki/SuccessStories</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref64" id="ftnt64">[64]</a> <a href=
          "https://twistedmatrix.com/glyph/">https://twistedmatrix.com/glyph/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref65" id="ftnt65">[65]</a> <a href=
          "https://peerj.com/preprints/1233.pdf">https://peerj.com/preprints/1233.pdf</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref66" id="ftnt66">[66]</a> Email interview with Arash Payan
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref67" id="ftnt67">[67]</a> <a href=
          "https://medium.com/@shazow/urllib3-stripe-and-open-source-grants-edb9c0e46e82">https://medium.com/@shazow/urllib3-stripe-and-open-source-grants-edb9c0e46e82</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref68" id="ftnt68">[68]</a> <a href=
          "https://readthedocs.org/sustainability/">https://readthedocs.org/sustainability/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref69" id="ftnt69">[69]</a> <a href=
          "https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2015/12/10/mozilla-open-source-support-first-awards-made/">https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2015/12/10/mozilla-open-source-support-first-awards-made/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref70" id="ftnt70">[70]</a> <a href=
          "http://blog.readthedocs.com/ads-on-read-the-docs/">http://blog.readthedocs.com/ads-on-read-the-docs/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="current-system.xhtml#ftnt_ref71" id="ftnt71">[71]</a> Skype interview with Eric Holscher
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref72" id="ftnt72">[72]</a> <a href=
          "http://david.heinemeierhansson.com/2013/the-perils-of-mixing-open-source-and-money.html">http://david.heinemeierhansson.com/2013/the-perils-of-mixing-open-source-and-money.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref73" id="ftnt73">[73]</a> <a href=
          "http://blog.codinghorror.com/is-money-useless-to-open-source-projects/">http://blog.codinghorror.com/is-money-useless-to-open-source-projects/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref74" id="ftnt74">[74]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.datamation.com/open-source/linus-torvalds-and-others-on-community-burnout-1.html">http://www.datamation.com/open-source/linus-torvalds-and-others-on-community-burnout-1.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref75" id="ftnt75">[75]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.apple.com/customer-letter/">http://www.apple.com/customer-letter/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref76" id="ftnt76">[76]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.blackducksoftware.com/future-of-open-source">https://www.blackducksoftware.com/future-of-open-source</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref77" id="ftnt77">[77]</a> <a href=
          "http://redmonk.com/sogrady/2013/12/19/dvcs-and-git-2013/#ixzz2qyfVpSR9">http://redmonk.com/sogrady/2013/12/19/dvcs-and-git-2013/#ixzz2qyfVpSR9</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref78" id="ftnt78">[78]</a> As of January 6, 2016. <a href=
          "https://www.openhub.net/repositories/compare">https://www.openhub.net/repositories/compare</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref79" id="ftnt79">[79]</a> <a href=
          "http://readwrite.com/2014/01/21/git-subversion-developers">http://readwrite.com/2014/01/21/git-subversion-developers</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref80" id="ftnt80">[80]</a> <a href=
          "https://github.com/blog/841-those-are-some-big-numbers">https://github.com/blog/841-those-are-some-big-numbers</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref81" id="ftnt81">[81]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GitHub">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GitHub</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref82" id="ftnt82">[82]</a> <a href=
          "https://github.com/blog/1724-10-million-repositories">https://github.com/blog/1724-10-million-repositories</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref83" id="ftnt83">[83]</a> <a href=
          "http://dirkriehle.com/publications/2008-2/the-total-growth-of-open-source/">http://dirkriehle.com/publications/2008-2/the-total-growth-of-open-source/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref84" id="ftnt84">[84]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_Overflow">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_Overflow</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref85" id="ftnt85">[85]</a> <a href=
          "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref86" id="ftnt86">[86]</a> <a href=
          "http://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/271080/the-mit-license-clarity-on-using-code-on-stack-overflow-and-stack-exchange">
          http://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/271080/the-mit-license-clarity-on-using-code-on-stack-overflow-and-stack-exchange</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref87" id="ftnt87">[87]</a> <a href=
          "http://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/272956/a-new-code-license-the-mit-this-time-with-attribution-required">
          http://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/272956/a-new-code-license-the-mit-this-time-with-attribution-required</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref88" id="ftnt88">[88]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.infoworld.com/article/2615869/open-source-software/github-needs-to-take-open-source-seriously.html">
          http://www.infoworld.com/article/2615869/open-source-software/github-needs-to-take-open-source-seriously.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref89" id="ftnt89">[89]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.infoworld.com/article/2611422/open-source-software/github-finally-takes-open-source-licenses-seriously.html">
          http://www.infoworld.com/article/2611422/open-source-software/github-finally-takes-open-source-licenses-seriously.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref90" id="ftnt90">[90]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/04/18/github_licensing_study/">http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/04/18/github_licensing_study/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref91" id="ftnt91">[91]</a> <a href=
          "https://twitter.com/monkchips/status/247584170967175169">https://twitter.com/monkchips/status/247584170967175169</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref92" id="ftnt92">[92]</a> <a href=
          "http://blog.codinghorror.com/please-dont-learn-to-code/">http://blog.codinghorror.com/please-dont-learn-to-code/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref93" id="ftnt93">[93]</a> <a href=
          "https://medium.com/@wob/the-sad-state-of-web-development-1603a861d29f#.443lcznv1">https://medium.com/@wob/the-sad-state-of-web-development-1603a861d29f#.443lcznv1</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref94" id="ftnt94">[94]</a> <a href=
          "https://coderanger.net/funding-foss/">https://coderanger.net/funding-foss/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref95" id="ftnt95">[95]</a> Email interview with Hynek Schlawack
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref96" id="ftnt96">[96]</a> <a href=
          "http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tech/tech-news/Security-experts-expect-Shellshock-software-bug-to-be-significant/articleshow/43657819.cms">
          http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/tech/tech-news/Security-experts-expect-Shellshock-software-bug-to-be-significant/articleshow/43657819.cms</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref97" id="ftnt97">[97]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.scmagazineuk.com/openssh-flaw-opens-the-door-to-brute-force-attackers/article/428304/">http://www.scmagazineuk.com/openssh-flaw-opens-the-door-to-brute-force-attackers/article/428304/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref98" id="ftnt98">[98]</a> <a href=
          "http://arstechnica.com/security/2016/01/bug-that-can-leak-crypto-keys-just-fixed-in-widely-used-openssh/">http://arstechnica.com/security/2016/01/bug-that-can-leak-crypto-keys-just-fixed-in-widely-used-openssh/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref99" id="ftnt99">[99]</a> <a href=
          "https://medium.com/@christophera/i-ve-been-working-to-address-this-gap-for-a-while-thus-my-recent-exploration-of-the-commons-in-my-8094d41a874a#.qyh31ida4">
          https://medium.com/@christophera/i-ve-been-working-to-address-this-gap-for-a-while-thus-my-recent-exploration-of-the-commons-in-my-8094d41a874a#.qyh31ida4</a>
          Quote edited for clarity by source.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref100" id="ftnt100">[100]</a> <a href=
          "https://medium.com/@azerbike/i-ve-just-liberated-my-modules-9045c06be67c#.4sdbklvqv">https://medium.com/@azerbike/i-ve-just-liberated-my-modules-9045c06be67c#.4sdbklvqv</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref101" id="ftnt101">[101]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.theregister.co.uk/2016/03/23/npm_left_pad_chaos/">http://www.theregister.co.uk/2016/03/23/npm_left_pad_chaos/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref102" id="ftnt102">[102]</a> <a href=
          "http://blog.npmjs.org/post/141577284765/kik-left-pad-and-npm">http://blog.npmjs.org/post/141577284765/kik-left-pad-and-npm</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref103" id="ftnt103">[103]</a> Email interview with Russell Keith-Magee and
          Hynek Schlawack
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref104" id="ftnt104">[104]</a> Phone and email interview with André Arko.
          Thanks to André for his edits.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref105" id="ftnt105">[105]</a> <a href=
          "https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper/issues/26">https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper/issues/26</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref106" id="ftnt106">[106]</a> <a href=
          "http://fortune.com/2016/03/22/red-hat-revenue-2-billion-open-source/">http://fortune.com/2016/03/22/red-hat-revenue-2-billion-open-source/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref107" id="ftnt107">[107]</a> <a href=
          "http://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/open-source-philosophy.html">http://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/open-source-philosophy.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref108" id="ftnt108">[108]</a> <a href=
          "https://twitter.com/ericholscher/status/689569190043201536">https://twitter.com/ericholscher/status/689569190043201536</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref109" id="ftnt109">[109]</a> <a href=
          "http://veridicalsystems.com/blog/of-money-responsibility-and-pride/">http://veridicalsystems.com/blog/of-money-responsibility-and-pride/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref110" id="ftnt110">[110]</a> <a href=
          "https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=8712370">https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=8712370</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref111" id="ftnt111">[111]</a> <a href=
          "http://ryanbigg.com/2015/11/open-source-work/">http://ryanbigg.com/2015/11/open-source-work/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref112" id="ftnt112">[112]</a> The 5.4% figure refers to open source
          contributors with more than ten contributions. <a href=
          "http://www.toptal.com/open-source/is-open-source-open-to-women">http://www.toptal.com/open-source/is-open-source-open-to-women</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref113" id="ftnt113">[113]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.drmaciver.com/2015/04/its-ok-for-your-open-source-library-to-be-a-bit-shitty/">http://www.drmaciver.com/2015/04/its-ok-for-your-open-source-library-to-be-a-bit-shitty/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref114" id="ftnt114">[114]</a> Email interview with Cory Benfield
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref115" id="ftnt115">[115]</a> Email interview with Charlotte Spencer
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref116" id="ftnt116">[116]</a> <a href=
          "http://jlord.us/blog/osos-talk.html">http://jlord.us/blog/osos-talk.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref117" id="ftnt117">[117]</a> <a href=
          "http://jlord.us/blog/osos-talk.html">http://jlord.us/blog/osos-talk.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="challenges.xhtml#ftnt_ref118" id="ftnt118">[118]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.ashedryden.com/blog/the-ethics-of-unpaid-labor-and-the-oss-community">https://www.ashedryden.com/blog/the-ethics-of-unpaid-labor-and-the-oss-community</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref119" id="ftnt119">[119]</a> Thanks to Sam Gerstenzang for framing this
          distinction: <a href=
          "https://twitter.com/gerstenzang/status/687404438005366784">https://twitter.com/gerstenzang/status/687404438005366784</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref120" id="ftnt120">[120]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.bountysource.com/">https://www.bountysource.com/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref121" id="ftnt121">[121]</a> <a href=
          "http://blog.codinghorror.com/given-enough-money-all-bugs-are-shallow/">http://blog.codinghorror.com/given-enough-money-all-bugs-are-shallow/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref122" id="ftnt122">[122]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.theregister.co.uk/2011/03/29/red_hat_billions/">http://www.theregister.co.uk/2011/03/29/red_hat_billions/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref123" id="ftnt123">[123]</a> <a href=
          "https://blogs.the451group.com/opensource/2008/10/13/open-source-is-not-a-business-model/">https://blogs.the451group.com/opensource/2008/10/13/open-source-is-not-a-business-model/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref124" id="ftnt124">[124]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/docker#/entity">https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/docker#/entity</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref125" id="ftnt125">[125]</a> <a href=
          "http://neighbourhood.ie/">http://neighbourhood.ie/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref126" id="ftnt126">[126]</a> Phone call interview with Jan Lehnardt
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref127" id="ftnt127">[127]</a> <a href=
          "https://twistedmatrix.com/trac/wiki/SuccessStories">https://twistedmatrix.com/trac/wiki/SuccessStories</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref128" id="ftnt128">[128]</a> <a href=
          "https://opensource.org/definition">https://opensource.org/definition</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref129" id="ftnt129">[129]</a> <a href="https://fair.io/">https://fair.io/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref130" id="ftnt130">[130]</a> <a href="https://fair.io/">https://fair.io/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref131" id="ftnt131">[131]</a> It is worth noting that Mike is correct about
          code hosted on GitHub with no specified license, but an open source license that meets the OSI’s definition
          must include freedom to redistribute. This quote highlights how the modern definition of “open source” is
          blurring, with colloquial use becoming distinct from historical definition.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref132" id="ftnt132">[132]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.mikeperham.com/2015/11/23/how-to-charge-for-your-open-source/">http://www.mikeperham.com/2015/11/23/how-to-charge-for-your-open-source/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref133" id="ftnt133">[133]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/andrewgodwin/schema-migrations-for-django/description">https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/andrewgodwin/schema-migrations-for-django/description</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref134" id="ftnt134">[134]</a> <a href=
          "https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper/issues/3">https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper/issues/3</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref135" id="ftnt135">[135]</a> As of November 2015. <a href=
          "https://gratipay.com/">https://gratipay.com/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref136" id="ftnt136">[136]</a> <a href=
          "http://veridicalsystems.com/blog/of-money-responsibility-and-pride/">http://veridicalsystems.com/blog/of-money-responsibility-and-pride/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref137" id="ftnt137">[137]</a> <a href=
          "http://blogs.wsj.com/cio/2014/08/20/openssl-seeing-more-support-post-heartbleed/">http://blogs.wsj.com/cio/2014/08/20/openssl-seeing-more-support-post-heartbleed/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref138" id="ftnt138">[138]</a> Email interview with Steve Marquess
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref139" id="ftnt139">[139]</a> <a href=
          "http://libscore.com/#libs">http://libscore.com/#libs</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref140" id="ftnt140">[140]</a> <a href=
          "http://ejohn.org/blog/mozilla/">http://ejohn.org/blog/mozilla/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref141" id="ftnt141">[141]</a> <a href=
          "http://ejohn.org/blog/next-steps-in-2011/">http://ejohn.org/blog/next-steps-in-2011/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref142" id="ftnt142">[142]</a> Email interview with Cory Benfield
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref143" id="ftnt143">[143]</a> Email interview with Cory Benfield
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref144" id="ftnt144">[144]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.bountysource.com/teams/rvm/fundraiser">https://www.bountysource.com/teams/rvm/fundraiser</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref145" id="ftnt145">[145]</a> Email interview with Cory Benfield
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref146" id="ftnt146">[146]</a> <a href=
          "https://strongloop.com/strongblog/tj-holowaychuk-sponsorship-of-express/">https://strongloop.com/strongblog/tj-holowaychuk-sponsorship-of-express/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref147" id="ftnt147">[147]</a> <a href=
          "https://github.com/strongloop/express/issues/2844#issuecomment-172414097">https://github.com/strongloop/express/issues/2844#issuecomment-172414097</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref148" id="ftnt148">[148]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.linuxfoundation.org/news-media/announcements/2015/02/linux-foundation-releases-linux-development-report">
          http://www.linuxfoundation.org/news-media/announcements/2015/02/linux-foundation-releases-linux-development-report</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref149" id="ftnt149">[149]</a> <a href=
          "https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper/issues/53">https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper/issues/53</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref150" id="ftnt150">[150]</a> <a href=
          "http://w3techs.com/technologies/overview/web_server/all">http://w3techs.com/technologies/overview/web_server/all</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref151" id="ftnt151">[151]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.apache.org/">http://www.apache.org/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref152" id="ftnt152">[152]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_Software_Foundation">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_Software_Foundation</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref153" id="ftnt153">[153]</a> <a href=
          "https://sfconservancy.org/members/current/">https://sfconservancy.org/members/current/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref154" id="ftnt154">[154]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IRS_targeting_controversy">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IRS_targeting_controversy</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref155" id="ftnt155">[155]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.forbes.com/sites/kellyphillipserb/2014/07/17/not-just-the-tea-party-irs-targeted-turned-down-tax-exempt-status-tied-to-open-source-software/">
          http://www.forbes.com/sites/kellyphillipserb/2014/07/17/not-just-the-tea-party-irs-targeted-turned-down-tax-exempt-status-tied-to-open-source-software/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref156" id="ftnt156">[156]</a> <a href=
          "https://blogs.gnome.org/jnelson/2014/06/30/the-new-501c3-and-the-future-of-free-software-in-the-united-states/">
          https://blogs.gnome.org/jnelson/2014/06/30/the-new-501c3-and-the-future-of-free-software-in-the-united-states/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref157" id="ftnt157">[157]</a> <a href=
          "https://blogs.gnome.org/jnelson/2014/06/30/the-new-501c3-and-the-future-of-free-software-in-the-united-states/">
          https://blogs.gnome.org/jnelson/2014/06/30/the-new-501c3-and-the-future-of-free-software-in-the-united-states/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref158" id="ftnt158">[158]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.python.org/psf/">https://www.python.org/psf/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref159" id="ftnt159">[159]</a> <a href=
          "https://jquery.org/">https://jquery.org/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref160" id="ftnt160">[160]</a> As of 2013. <a href=
          "https://www.djangoproject.com/foundation/reports/2013/">https://www.djangoproject.com/foundation/reports/2013/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref161" id="ftnt161">[161]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.djangoproject.com/weblog/2015/dec/11/django-awarded-moss-grant/">https://www.djangoproject.com/weblog/2015/dec/11/django-awarded-moss-grant/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref162" id="ftnt162">[162]</a> <a href=
          "http://collabprojects.linuxfoundation.org/sites/collabprojects/files/lf_collaborative_projects_brochure.pdf">
          http://collabprojects.linuxfoundation.org/sites/collabprojects/files/lf_collaborative_projects_brochure.pdf</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref163" id="ftnt163">[163]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.infoworld.com/article/2835159/node-js/node-js-governance-model-pushed-as-forking-talk-ensues.html">
          http://www.infoworld.com/article/2835159/node-js/node-js-governance-model-pushed-as-forking-talk-ensues.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref164" id="ftnt164">[164]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.joyent.com/blog/introducing-the-nodejs-foundation">https://www.joyent.com/blog/introducing-the-nodejs-foundation</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref165" id="ftnt165">[165]</a> <a href=
          "https://rubytogether.org/">https://rubytogether.org/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref166" id="ftnt166">[166]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.infoworld.com/article/2608897/open-source-software/walmart-s-investment-in-open-source-isn-t-cheap.html">
          http://www.infoworld.com/article/2608897/open-source-software/walmart-s-investment-in-open-source-isn-t-cheap.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref167" id="ftnt167">[167]</a> <a href=
          "http://hueniverse.com/2014/08/15/open-source-aint-charity/">http://hueniverse.com/2014/08/15/open-source-aint-charity/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref168" id="ftnt168">[168]</a> <a href=
          "http://todogroup.org/blog/why-we-run-an-open-source-program-walmart-labs/">http://todogroup.org/blog/why-we-run-an-open-source-program-walmart-labs/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref169" id="ftnt169">[169]</a> <a href=
          "https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper/issues/50">https://github.com/pybee/paying-the-piper/issues/50</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref170" id="ftnt170">[170]</a> <a href=
          "https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/">https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref171" id="ftnt171">[171]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Summer_of_Code</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref172" id="ftnt172">[172]</a> <a href=
          "https://stripe.com/blog/stripe-open-source-retreat">https://stripe.com/blog/stripe-open-source-retreat</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref173" id="ftnt173">[173]</a> Gittip is now called Gratipay. The product has
          been modified somewhat since the original publication of Andrey’s post.
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref174" id="ftnt174">[174]</a> <a href=
          "https://stripe.com/blog/stripe-open-source-retreat">https://stripe.com/blog/stripe-open-source-retreat</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref175" id="ftnt175">[175]</a> Systems Live, Episode 51: Megalith <a href=
          "http://systemslive.org/">http://systemslive.org/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref176" id="ftnt176">[176]</a> Systems Live, Episode 51: Megalith <a href=
          "http://systemslive.org/">http://systemslive.org/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref177" id="ftnt177">[177]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.wired.com/2012/11/feudal-security/">http://www.wired.com/2012/11/feudal-security/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref178" id="ftnt178">[178]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.cnet.com/news/tech-titans-join-forces-to-stop-the-next-heartbleed/">http://www.cnet.com/news/tech-titans-join-forces-to-stop-the-next-heartbleed/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref179" id="ftnt179">[179]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.linuxfoundation.org/news-media/blogs/browse/2016/02/linux-foundation-s-core-infrastructure-initiative-working-white">
          http://www.linuxfoundation.org/news-media/blogs/browse/2016/02/linux-foundation-s-core-infrastructure-initiative-working-white</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref180" id="ftnt180">[180]</a> <a href=
          "https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2015/10/23/mozilla-launches-open-source-support-program/">https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2015/10/23/mozilla-launches-open-source-support-program/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref181" id="ftnt181">[181]</a> <a href=
          "https://wiki.mozilla.org/MOSS/Secure_Open_Source">https://wiki.mozilla.org/MOSS/Secure_Open_Source</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref182" id="ftnt182">[182]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.python.org/psf/records/board/resolutions/">https://www.python.org/psf/records/board/resolutions/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref183" id="ftnt183">[183]</a> <a href=
          "http://techcrunch.com/2013/09/18/facebook-doesnt-want-to-be-cool/">http://techcrunch.com/2013/09/18/facebook-doesnt-want-to-be-cool/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref184" id="ftnt184">[184]</a> <a href=
          "https://github.com/dear-github/dear-github">https://github.com/dear-github/dear-github</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref185" id="ftnt185">[185]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.fastcompany.com/3020181/open-company/inside-githubs-super-lean-management-strategy-and-how-it-drives-innovation">
          http://www.fastcompany.com/3020181/open-company/inside-githubs-super-lean-management-strategy-and-how-it-drives-innovation</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref186" id="ftnt186">[186]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.businessinsider.com/github-the-full-inside-story-2016-2">http://www.businessinsider.com/github-the-full-inside-story-2016-2</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref187" id="ftnt187">[187]</a> <a href=
          "http://fortune.com/2015/12/15/slack-app-investment-fund/">http://fortune.com/2015/12/15/slack-app-investment-fund/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref188" id="ftnt188">[188]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.r-project.org/contributors.html">https://www.r-project.org/contributors.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref189" id="ftnt189">[189]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.revolutionanalytics.com/companies-using-r">http://www.revolutionanalytics.com/companies-using-r</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref190" id="ftnt190">[190]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.numfocus.org/open-source-projects.html">http://www.numfocus.org/open-source-projects.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="sustaining.xhtml#ftnt_ref191" id="ftnt191">[191]</a> <a href=
          "http://msdse.org/themes/#tools">http://msdse.org/themes/#tools</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref192" id="ftnt192">[192]</a> <a href=
          "http://david.heinemeierhansson.com/2013/the-perils-of-mixing-open-source-and-money.html">http://david.heinemeierhansson.com/2013/the-perils-of-mixing-open-source-and-money.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref193" id="ftnt193">[193]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keystone_species">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keystone_species</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref194" id="ftnt194">[194]</a> <a href=
          "https://libraries.io/">https://libraries.io/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref195" id="ftnt195">[195]</a> <a href=
          "http://felixge.de/2013/03/11/the-pull-request-hack.html">http://felixge.de/2013/03/11/the-pull-request-hack.html</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref196" id="ftnt196">[196]</a> <a href=
          "https://medium.com/the-javascript-collection/healthy-open-source-967fa8be7951#.4x37jao9w">https://medium.com/the-javascript-collection/healthy-open-source-967fa8be7951#.4x37jao9w</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref197" id="ftnt197">[197]</a> <a href=
          "https://twitter.com/yourfirstpr">https://twitter.com/yourfirstpr</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref198" id="ftnt198">[198]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.firsttimersonly.com/">http://www.firsttimersonly.com/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref199" id="ftnt199">[199]</a> <a href=
          "http://makeapullrequest.com/">http://makeapullrequest.com/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref200" id="ftnt200">[200]</a> <a href=
          "https://www.blackducksoftware.com/news/releases/seventy-eight-percent-companies-run-open-source-yet-many-lack-formal-policies-manage">
          https://www.blackducksoftware.com/news/releases/seventy-eight-percent-companies-run-open-source-yet-many-lack-formal-policies-manage</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref201" id="ftnt201">[201]</a> <a href=
          "http://todogroup.org/">http://todogroup.org/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref202" id="ftnt202">[202]</a> <a href=
          "http://todogroup.org/blog/todo-becomes-lf-collaborative-project/">http://todogroup.org/blog/todo-becomes-lf-collaborative-project/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref203" id="ftnt203">[203]</a> <a href=
          "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Varnish_(software)">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Varnish_(software)</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref204" id="ftnt204">[204]</a> <a href=
          "http://phk.freebsd.dk/VML/">http://phk.freebsd.dk/VML/</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref205" id="ftnt205">[205]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424053111903480904576512250915629460">http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424053111903480904576512250915629460</a>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref206" id="ftnt206">[206]</a> Phone interview with Steve Marquess
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          <a href="opportunities.xhtml#ftnt_ref207" id="ftnt207">[207]</a> <a href=
          "http://www.informationweek.com/it-life/ntps-fate-hinges-on-father-time/d/d-id/1319432">http://www.informationweek.com/it-life/ntps-fate-hinges-on-father-time/d/d-id/1319432</a>
        </p>
      </div>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
